Distance running demands sensory awareness of surroundings. This awareness joins people to place through physical connection with the land, the creation of emotional social bonds, and the repetition of routine. In this regard, distance running serves as an individual placemaking practice, which lends itself to observations and suggestions that can inform land use planning.  

This project combines cartography with autoethnographic research to study the placemaking practice of distance running through a humanistic approach. I apply placemaking and sports geography literature to a case study on distance running and sense of place in Middlebury, Vermont. Middlebury is a “must-see destination” for outdoor recreators as it provides opportunities for “hiking, biking, golf, kayaking, fly fishing, bird watching, alpine and cross-country skiing”, as posed by the first paragraph on the state of Vermont’s Middlebury Tourism website. While Middlebury is a haven for outdoor enthusiasts, its outdoor amenities are neither equitably distributed, nor safely accessible to pedestrians. Based on observations made while running every public street in Middlebury, I suggest land use planning decisions that improve the accessibility and equity of Middlebury, Vermont’s outdoor recreation.  

### OpenLayers Webmap  
This [webmap] offers an opportunity for the public to understand the significance of sense of place in land use planning. Hopefully, this increased awareness will impact resident engagement and thoughtfulness toward land use planning and policy in the wake of Middlebury's increasing population and development.

### Sense of Pace Paper
This [research paper] outlines the arguments, methods, and results in studying how the placemaking practice of distance running can impact land use planning decisions.  
